---
title: "Principled New Donors? How the OECD DAC Shapes New Member Compliance with International Foreign Aid Standards"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2024-11-11-paper-policy-markers
excerpt: 'Over the past two decades, many former aid-receiving countries have begun engaging in international development assistance as donors. We focus on new European donors, chiefly Eastern European and Baltic states, and South Korea: former aid recipients who joined the OECD Development Assistance Committee (DAC) since 2010. As the premier forum for deliberations and standard-setting in traditional foreign aid giving, the DAC facilitates the creation of a consensus on substantive aid effectiveness principles, but it also maintains an infrastructure of data collection and publication that standardizes and disseminates information on aid flows. While one might not expect new DAC members to have the capacity to comply with its more substantive aid-giving guidelines to the same extent that established donors do, we argue that they make up for it by doing great in following the organization’s data reporting requirements. This is the result of two forces: the DAC’s efforts to teach new members how to keep good track of their aid activities and to provide them with the tools, instructions, and assistance to compile and share complete data; and the new donors’ incentive to demonstrate a good-faith effort to being good members of the club they just joined. With empirical evidence from the DAC’s Policy Marker System, we show that new donors are indeed more likely to comply with procedural reporting requirements; while traditional donors are more likely to implement the more substantive DAC recommendations.'
date: 2024-11-10
venue: 'Invited to Review & Resubmit'
#slidesurl: 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/slides1.pdf'
#paperurl: 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/paper1.pdf'
#citation: 'Your Name, You. (2009). &quot;Paper Title Number 1.&quot; <i>Journal 1</i>. 1(1).'
---

Over the past two decades, many former aid-receiving countries have begun engaging in international development assistance as donors. We focus on new European donors, chiefly Eastern European and Baltic states, and South Korea: former aid recipients who joined the OECD Development Assistance Committee (DAC) since 2010. As the premier forum for deliberations and standard-setting in traditional foreign aid giving, the DAC facilitates the creation of a consensus on substantive aid effectiveness principles, but it also maintains an infrastructure of data collection and publication that standardizes and disseminates information on aid flows. While one might not expect new DAC members to have the capacity to comply with its more substantive aid-giving guidelines to the same extent that established donors do, we argue that they make up for it by doing great in following the organization’s data reporting requirements. This is the result of two forces: the DAC’s efforts to teach new members how to keep good track of their aid activities and to provide them with the tools, instructions, and assistance to compile and share complete data; and the new donors’ incentive to demonstrate a good-faith effort to being good members of the club they just joined. With empirical evidence from the DAC’s Policy Marker System, we show that new donors are indeed more likely to comply with procedural reporting requirements; while traditional donors are more likely to implement the more substantive DAC recommendations.
